What is Self-Improvement?
Let’s define self-improvement. The definition of self-improvement is pretty self-explanatory: Self-improvement is the improvement of one’s knowledge, status, or character by one’s own efforts. It’s the quest to make ourselves better in any and every facet of life.

Best Self-Improvement Articles to Start With
Self-improvement almost always starts with self-awareness and the ability to transform your habits. If you’re serious about transforming your life and improving yourself, you should start with these two articles:

How to Stop Lying to Ourselves: A Call for Self-Awareness: If you’re serious about getting better at something, then one of the first steps is to know—in black-and-white terms—where you stand. You need self-awareness before you can achieve self-improvement.
Forget About Setting Goals. Focus on This Instead: For most of us, the path to self-improvement starts by setting a specific and actionable goal. What I’m starting to realize, however, is that when it comes to actually getting things done and making progress in the areas that are important to you, there is a much better way to do things. It all comes down to the difference between goals and systems.
Common Self-Improvement Topics
I discuss almost every aspect of smart, science-backed self-improvement on this website. You can explore some of the sub-topics of self-improvement with the links below:

The Beginner’s Guide to Productivity and Time Management
The Ultimate Guide on How to Improve Focus and Concentration
The Beginner’s Guide on How to Eat Healthy and Stick to It
More Examples of Smart Self-Improvement
The Scientific Argument for Mastering One Thing at a Time
How to Use Military Strategy to Build Better Habits
How to Read More: The Simple System I’m Using to Read 30+ Books Per Year
Best Self-Improvement Books
Manual for Living by Epictetus
Meditations by Marcus Aurelius
Want more books on self-improvement? Browse my full list of the best self-help books.

All Self-Improvement Articles
This is a complete list of articles I have written on self-improvement. Enjoy!

7 Ways to Retain More of Every Book You Read
The Beginner’s Guide to Deliberate Practice
The Scientific Argument for Mastering One Thing at a Time
Make Your Life Better by Saying Thank You in These 7 Situations
How to Use Military Strategy to Build Better Habits
How to Master the Invisible Hand That Shapes Our Lives
This Zen Concept Will Help You Stop Being a Slave to Old Beliefs
The Chemistry of Building Better Habits
How to Stop Lying to Ourselves: A Call for Self-Awareness
If Nothing Changes, Nothing Is Going to Change
Olympic Medalist Dick Fosbury and the Power of Being Unconventional
What Happens When You Believe You’re Taking Steroids
Two Harvard Professors Reveal One Reason Our Brains Love to Procrastinate
How to Fall in Love With Boredom and Unlock Your Mental Toughness
Inside the Mind of a Mad Scientist
You’re Not Ready for Marriage
The 2 Types of Growth: Which One of These Growth Curves Are You Following?
The Goal is Not the Point
5 Lessons on Being Wrong
Stop Thinking and Start Doing: The Power of Practicing More
Bob Mathias on How to Master the Art of Self-Confidence
5 Common Mistakes That Cause New Habits to Fail
Constraints Make You Better: Why the Right Limitations Boost Performance
To Make Big Gains, Avoid Tiny Losses
10 Lessons Learned from Squatting 400 Pounds
4 Reasonable Ways to Achieve Overnight Success
Measure Backward, Not Forward
How to Build New Habits by Taking Advantage of Old Ones
What Are You Measuring In Your Life?
How to Get Your Brain to Focus on What Matters
How to Read More: The Simple System I’m Using to Read 30+ Books Per Year
Plan For Failure: Being Consistent Is Not the Same as Being Perfect
How to Change Your Beliefs and Stick to Your Goals for Good
Stop Wasting Time on the Details and Commit to the Fundamentals
I’m Using These 3 Simple Steps to Actually Stick with Good Habits
I Watched an Artist Create Stained Glass And Learned An Important Lesson About Life
Treat Failure Like a Scientist
This Research Study Changed the Way We Think About Success (Here’s How You Can Use It)
This Coach Improved Every Tiny Thing by 1 Percent and Here’s What Happened
Why Trying to Be Perfect Won’t Help You Achieve Your Goals (And What Will)
Do You Have to be Unhappy Now if You Want to be Successful Later?
Follow the Recipe: Are You Being Patient Enough to See Results?
You’re Not Good Enough to Be Disappointed
3 Simple Things You Can Do Right Now to Build Better Habits
The Crime Your Brain Commits Against You
Lessons on Success and Deliberate Practice from Mozart, Picasso, and Kobe Bryant
What is Actually Required for Success?
How to Stop Procrastinating on Your Goals by Using the “Seinfeld Strategy”
How to Improve Your Health and Productivity Without Thinking
The Mistake Smart People Make: Being In Motion vs. Taking Action
How Your Beliefs Can Sabotage Your Behavior
What is Your “Average Speed” in Your Life, Your Health, and Your Work?
The Difference Between Being “Not Wrong” and Being Right
Achieve Your Goals: Research Reveals a Simple Trick That Doubles Your Chances for Success
How to Break a Bad Habit and Replace It With a Good One
Get Back on Track: 7 Strategies to Help You Bounce Back After Slipping Up
How to Say No, Resist Temptation, and Stick to Your Health Goals
3 Time Management Tips That Actually Work
How to Achieve Your Goals Easily
3 Surprising Reasons Why You Need to Rediscover Slow Growth
Why Getting Started is More Important Than Succeeding
When to be Unreasonable With Yourself
Why is it So Hard to Stick to Good Habits?
The Difference Between Professionals and Amateurs
Identity-Based Habits: How to Actually Stick to Your Goals This Year
Keystone Habits: The Simple Way to Improve All Aspects of Your Life
Best Articles on Related Topics
Best habits articles
Best minimalism articles
Best life lessons articles
Or, browse my best articles.